Latest post on building preview environments (#36)
okteto/blog-proposals: using-gh-actions-and-okteto-cloud-to-preview-pr-changes.md

> Preview environments serve an important role when performing code reviews for an incoming change or addition to an application's codebase.

Author: Sure!

> In the [last couple of posts](https://okteto.com/blog/tags/fastapi), you have learned how to build a FastAPI application, deploy the application to Okteto and add a database using Okteto stacks. This article will be explaining how to configure preview environments for incoming changes from pull requests using GitHub Actions and Okteto.

Author: Sure, fixed.

> ## Okteto Premium

Author: Great then. I'll remove this section then :-)

The free tier plan does not allow the creation of multiple namespaces. It is adviced that you upgrade your plan from your [dashboard](https://cloud.okteto.com/#/settings/plans) or try out the 14-day free trial to explore the limitless operations you can perform with Okteto.

## What Are Github Actions

[GitHub Actions](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/learn-github-actions/introduction-to-github-actions) are event-driven task automation tools that runs a series of command after an event has occurred. These events and commands are contained in a workflow file. The workflow file is responsible for the orderly execution by GitHub Actions.

> ## Creating A GitHub Action Workflow

Author: I'm not sure, I think actions are rolled out generally.

GitHub Actions are created and managed from the **Actions** tab in a repository. Create a new workflow from the Actions tab:

![Create A New Workflow](https://res.cloudinary.com/laisi/image/upload/v1615041975/emgx1lf6c9qe0snrxq9a.png)

There are a number of available templates in the GitHub Actions page. However, click on the **set up a workflow yourself** link. This opens a new page with a default workflow, let's rewrite the workflow file:

Start by defining the name of the workflow, and the event which should trigger the execution of the workflow file:

```yaml
name: CRUD App Preview Deployment

on: 
  pull_request:
    branches:
      - main

```

In the code block above, we have set the name of the workflow, and the event to trigger the workflow. The workflow file is executed when a pull request is made to the `main` branch. Next, let's define the series of tasks to be executed. These tasks are called **jobs** in GitHub Actions.

> Add the following below the existing code:

Author: I mentioned it: **Add the following below the existing code:**

      uses: okteto/login@master
      with:
        token: ${{ secrets.OKTETO_TOKEN }}

    - name: Create namespace
      uses: okteto/create-namespace@master
      with:
        namespace: pr-${{ github.event.number }}-namespace
   
    - name: Deploy application
      uses: okteto/deploy-stack@master
      with:
        build: "true"
        namespace: pr-${{ github.event.number }}-namespace

    - name: add comment to PR
      uses: unsplash/comment-on-pr@master
      env:
        GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
      with:
        msg: "Preview environment available at https://fastapi-pr-${{ github.event.number }}-namespace.cloud.okteto.net"  
```

In the code block above, we defined the job `preview` which runs on the `ubuntu-latest` environment. The subtasks to be executed under this job is defined under the `steps` heading. Let's go over these subtasks.

Replace `namespace` in the code block above with your Okteto default namespace.

### Subtasks

In our `preview` job, we have five tasks to be executed. The first task checks out the repository using the `actions/checkout@master` actions, so that the repository is accessible by the entire workflow. 

> The second task logs in into your Okteto account as a prerequisite to creating a new namespace where the preview environment will be deployed. This task makes use of a token `secrets.OKTETO_TOKEN` which is your Okteto token. In the next section, you'll learn how to add your okteto token to your repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The second task logs in into your Okteto account as a prerequisite to creating a new namespace where the preview environment will be deployed. This task makes use of` secrets.OKTETO_TOKEN`,  which holds the value of your Okteto token. You'll learn how to create the secret in the next section.
```

> The second task logs in into your Okteto account as a prerequisite to creating a new namespace where the preview environment will be deployed. This task makes use of a token `secrets.OKTETO_TOKEN` which is your Okteto token. In the next section, you'll learn how to add your okteto token to your repository.

Reviewer: Instead of saying `first`, `second`, `third`, I think it would be easier to read if we do a list of the steps, with the name of the step as the first part:

1. `checkout`:  This step checks out the repository....
2. `Login`:  This step logs in into your Okteto account...
3. ....
4. ...

Author: Fixed

The last task adds a comment on the pull request discussion indicating a link to the deployed application. It makes use of the `unsplash/comment-on-pr@master` action.

### Adding Your Okteto Token To GitHub

Before adding your Okteto token to GitHub, retrieve your OKteto token from your dashboard settings:

![Okteto dashboard - Settings](https://res.cloudinary.com/laisi/image/upload/v1615047658/pbkydburxszrz8hjgmgg.png)

The workflow file needs your [Okteto account](https://cloud.okteto.com) token to function properly. Follow the steps below to add your okteto token to your GitHub repository:

1. In your repository, navigate to the **Settings** tab and click on the **Secrets** link on the menu by the left:

![Secrets](https://res.cloudinary.com/laisi/image/upload/v1615045117/cskayu5fymd9pfkcnvvn.png)

2. Click on **New Repository Secret**

![Add A New Secret](https://res.cloudinary.com/laisi/image/upload/v1615045246/vvavcscqrww9dnxm6pyh.png)

3. Create a new secret `OKTETO_TOKEN` and set the value to the token you copied from your dashboard.

![Create New Secret](https://res.cloudinary.com/laisi/image/upload/v1615047981/pqfyim20zfw8gzoycwma.png)

> 

Reviewer: can we link to the official githhub instructions for using secrets at the end?

Author: Sure

Author: Done

## Building The Preview Environment

With the secret in place, let's go on to create a pull request from the `mongodb-crud` branch into the `main` branch to see the workflow in action:

![New Pull Request](https://res.cloudinary.com/laisi/image/upload/v1615049077/llf2krz4caqvfjcvcrx7.png)

Immediately the pull request is created, the workflow kicks into action:

![Workflow In Action](https://res.cloudinary.com/laisi/image/upload/v1615049480/ed3myn0hqtq0lg04rrnr.png)

To monitor the progress of the workflow in action, navigate to the **Actions** tab. The current workflow is listed like in the image below:

![Actions Tab](https://res.cloudinary.com/laisi/image/upload/v1615049702/ezywz076l9q0ml535doc.png)

> Click on the workflow currently under execution. In the workflow page, click on the `preview` job to view the execution of the subtasks:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click on the workflow currently under execution. In the workflow page, click on the `preview` job to view the execution and logs of each step:
```
